Generally there are a number of tools you need to run a
successful JMS production implementation.
Again it does depend on the JMS provider you're using.
Some provide tooling out of the box with centralized
administration and configuration and others don't.
Quite often it depends on the price tag associated with the JMS provider.
If it has a hefty price associated with it,
then I would certainly expect these features.
If you are using an open-source option,
these two can come with centralized administration,
but often they don't.
Most commands are run on the commandline.
These require a slightly different approach,
but one you probably need to put some effort into yourself.
For example,
starting and stopping a cluster JMS implementation often involves
starting and stopping brokers in the correct order.
During failover scenarios,
how do you fail back to a primary broker if that's required?
Rolling releases of the broker software itself,
updating some configuration that isn't centralized,
these generally all require some form of coordination.
Sometimes it's hard to beat good old Shell or PowerShell scripts for this task,
but there are alternatives these days.
One I personally like to use is Ansible to create
playbooks to control your JMS implementation,
starting, stopping services, deployments,
etc.
There are a number of courses on Ansible in Pluralsight, so I suggest you go and check these out.